---
layout: page
title: "Synopsis"
---

![fourreal](/assets/covers/ruin-2108239_640.jpg)

Dealing with fourreal is really daunting.

In the beginning they called me and my wife for a lot of meetings with
the construction company in which they provided ambiguous, and
sometime false, informations.  They involved us in their tractative
with their contractors.  Then, they pretended to have nothing to do
with that, and blamed us to have stepped over them in dealing with the
construction company.

They hire the cheapest contractors available on the market.

They are in an ambiguous situation: Mr. Klugsberger is both their
employee and the directing manager of _PeakReal GmbH_, that acts as
real estate agent for the project in Kärntener Straße.  Is it not a
conflict of interests?  Well, maybe not, there is no conflict, only
interests.  I am surprise it is allowed by the law.

Their have sent us false documents, regarding the legal status of our
building.  They claimed that our four-floor building is less that
seven meters high, and so do not require static-proofing.  We pointed
out the "mistake" and they sent us the same document again.

They added a modified floor plan to our purchase contract at the last
minute, when we met by the notary to sign it.  The new floor plan has
no measures for singles rooms, contrarily to the one used until this
point.  The bathroom and bedroom are much smaller than originally
indicated.

We choose a parquet following their instructions.  As agreed, we pay
the difference in the material.

They told us the parquet we choose would have required a very
complicated installation, with sanding and oiling.  That is false.
Not only they asked for almost € 3000, they would have ruined our,
lacquered, parquet.  We had to hire a lawyer and an architect to being
able to have our parquet installed. And we pay the added costs anyway,
that amounts to € 700.

We expected the step added in the floor-plan at the last minute to be
in concrete.  We also offered to contribut to the costs.  They fooled
us because we use the word "cement" instead "concrete".  They told us
that making the step in concrete in nonsense, and every expert would
have confirmed their opinion.  When I asked for the opinion of _their_
expert, he said that a pre-built "podestum" in concrete (not that we
asked for), would have require an additional static proof, and that it
was "too late" (without further explanation), for concrete casting.
This certifications come after two months of negotiation on the issue.
Other experts I consulted told me that this certification is nonsense.

The contract specify two distinct outlets for the cooking-plan and the
oven.  They realized only one.  When I asked, they did not know what
the contract specify.  Instead of making another outlet near the
existing one, as I asked, they wanted me to send them the kitchen
plan, and they misinterpreted the fridge for the oven, making the
outlet in the wrong place.

The wall in the kitchen has a corner not indicated in the floor plan.
That made the planning and realization of the kitchen more expensive.
They say that the planning of the kitchen has been discussed with
them, as proved by the fact we sent the kitchen plan.  By the way, the
wall is not straight.

The shower is much cheaper of the one specified in the purchase
contract.  It is installed over a step, of which we have not been
informed.  There should have been a pocket door that has not been
realized, so, there is no separation between the _day_ areas and the
_night_ areas.  There should be a gate that has never been realized.
fourreal refuse to realize it.  The whole terrace is on a step that
has never been indicated.

A lot of other things has been poorly realized: some doors does not
close or does not open properly, the ring bell has not worked for one
year, we already have damages by moisture, and the list would be very
long.

Each of the issues outlined here will be expanded in the future, in
this chronicles, and it will take a bit of time.
