---
layout: page
title: "Timeline"
---
![date](/assets/covers/new-years-eve-1046699_640.jpg)

This a diary of events related to the apartment in Kärntener Straße, Berlin,
owned by me, Marco Benelli, and my wife.
It is done mostly to keep track of all the unanswered mails, false statements and ambiguous reply dispensed by fourreal.
It is intended to be a work in progress.

2016
====

February, 10th
--------------

We meet the real estate agent, Mr. Jendrzejewski of _Bewocon GmbH_ for
the first time, on the construction site.  He show us what will be our
flat.  However, there are no internal walls, no floor, no roof. He
show us the floor plan and the brochure. He explain the procedure that
we have to follow for buying the property.

In the following weeks, we sign a pre-contract and pay a deposit.  We
ask for some modification in the bathroom: we do not want the
bath-tube, but we want a larger shower area and a bidet.
Our requests are formalized to become part of the purchase contract.
We arrange a date to sign the contract by the notary.

May, 4th
-------

We sign the contract; representing the seller, _fourreal K8 GmbH & Co
KG_, there is Mr. Jendrzejewski.  He has been given power of attorney,
since nobody from fourreal can be present.  We are told that, due to
building need, there will be two steps on the main door.  We sign a
floor plan that becomes part of the contract.  We notice that there is
no valve in the garden.  Mr. Jendrzejewski tell us to communicate
every request to Mr. Mario Unger, of the construction company.  He
tell us to call Mr. Unger to choose the tiles of the bathroom and the
parquet.  The notary confirms Mr. Jendrzejewski statements.
Mr. Jendrzejewski call by phone a employee of his company that send us
an e-mail with Mr. Unger's phone number.

May, 5th-27th
------------

We contact Mr. Unger and tell him our request: the valve in the garden
and the tiles in the bathroom.  Mr. Unger tell us that the floor plan
is not correct about the steps: he proposes us to have the top step a
bit longer and to move a bit the door of the sleeping room.  He say
that is just a matter of a bit more concrete, so there will no
additional cost.  We agree with his proposal.  Mr. Unger gives us an
[handwritten note][unger_parquet] with the address of the
[shop][hinterseer] where we must choose the parquet and the value of
the material included in the contract.  We agree to cover the price
difference of the material that we will choose.

May, 28th
--------

We go to the shop specified by Mr. Unger and we choose a parquet.
After few days we go to Mr. Unger and we bring to him the
[specification][parquet] of the parquet, but he say that he does not need
them.  Since in the [note][unger_parquet] that Mr. Unger gave us to bring to the
parquet shop there were his e-mail address, we think that he has an
agreement with the shop to have the specifications by e-mail.

June - July
-----------

We discuss with Mr. Unger several details and additional costs, we
never received a written list:

- parquet material: ca 1400 Euro
- valve in the garden: ca 600 Euro
- tiles in the bathroom: ca 400 Euro

We order the kitchen, after confirmation from Mr. Unger that
electrical connections will fit.  The seller of the kitchen (IKEA) tell
us that it can be installed on September, 16th.  Mr. Unger confirms
that the apartment will be ready for such date.

August, 17th
------------

Mr. Unger call us for a meeting.  At the meeting is present a Fourreal
employee, Mr. Andreas Klugsberger.  Mr. Klugsberger tell us that we
have to take charge of some additional costs for the laying of the
parquet, or we can choose the one that they intended, a
"parkett-dielen".  He strongly suggest us to not pay the additional
costs because they are not worthy in his opinion, but he gives us only
a vague estimation (hundreds of Euros).  We are told that a precise
estimation will be provided the following day.  We agree to come back
to the parquet shop to evaluate some alternatives that could fit the
requirement.

August, 18th
------------

Mr. Unger send to my wife an SMS with the estimation. Here is the text
of the SMS:

    Mehrkosten Fliesel 490 
    Parkett Material 1400 
    Parkett Verlegen 3493 
    Wasser Hahn  750

We ask Mr. Unger the reasons for such a difference.  We can not
understand his reply, it seems that he need a special insurance for
himself, in case of damage of the material.  We ask for the
possibility to call another company to do the job.  He say that it
would be possible.

August, 19th
------------

I contact the lawyer Mr. Thomas Röth for a legal consultancy.  We fix
an appointment for the morning of August, 23th.

August, 20th
------------

We come back to the parquet shop to evaluate the parquet proposed by
Mr. Klugsberger, but we do not like it.  We ask an opinion to the shop
assistant: she tell us that 3500 Euro is way too much as a difference
for the kind of parquet we choose, it is more similar to whole price
of the layering.  We show her our contract and she confirms that the
parquet we choose is compatible with the specifications, and that it
is not particularly complicated to lay.  She provides us with a list of
companies that could do the layering.  In her opinion three week is a
realistic time-frame to call another company and have the parquet
layered before the installation of the kitchen.  We contact two
companies from the list and collect the estimations.  They are around
2400-2600 Euro for the whole work.  We discovered later that we send
the wrong specifications and the layering of the chosen parquet would
have been more expensive, but not as much as requested by Mr. Unger.

August, 23th
------------

I ask Mr. Röth to write an e-mail to Fourreal to explain the issue and
ask that we will not be charged of unjustified additional costs.

We call Mr. Unger asking to keep the material because we are
considering to have the job done by another company.  Mr. Unger call
us for another meeting, the same day, with Mr. Klugsberger.  We tell
them that we do not like the proposed parquet and we consider
excessive the additional costs proposed.  Mr. Klugsberger confirms that
there is the possibility to call another company, but he would prefer
we do not do that, because of the complication of having two different
companies working on the same site.  We told them that our parquet has
a factory-made varnishing and does not require any particular
treatment before or after the installation.  They told us again that
our contract specify a "parkett-dielen", and a copy of the contract is
shown to us, from Mr. Unger's laptop.  Mr. Klugsberger told us that
Fourreal pay 36 Euro/m2 fore the layering of the parquet.  After some
phone call and discussions between Mr. Klugsberger and Mr. Unger, we
are told that "our" parquet can be installed with a cost of 40
Euro/m2.  We agree to pay the difference of 4 Euro/m2, for total
amount of 280 Euro.

Mr. Klugsberger tell us that the parquet on the stair is not a good
choice: he show us some alternatives on his laptop, of stairs made of
concrete and covered by solid wood.  Mr. Unger tell us that the
alternative would be tiles.  We ask to be informed of the costs of the
different alternatives, they told us that a written list of all
additional costs will be sent us the following day.

I write to Mr. Röth to inform him about this meeting, we decide to not
send them the planned e-mail.

August, 24th
------------

I write an [e-mail][tok-20160824] to Mr. Klugsberger (ak@fourreal.eu), pointing his
attention that our contract does not specify "parkett-dielen" and that
Mr. Unger have not yet sent us a list of costs.

August, 26th
------------

No reply from Mr. Klugsberger, I write him [again][tok-20160826].

August, 30th
------------

No reply from Mr. Klugsberger, I write to Fourreal (k8@fourreal.eu,
office@fourreal.eu) and to Mr. Klugsberger, [describing][tok-20160830]
the situation.

Mr. Klugsberger replies me, apologizing for the delay,
and telling that everything is fine about the parquet: they will pay
the 280 Euro needed for the layering.  He apologize also for his wrong
statement about "parkett-dielen".  He does not talk about the list of
costs, addressing me to discuss every our special request to
Mr. Unger.  He offers to fix an appointment for the following day.

August, 31th
------------

10:35

I reply to Mr. Klugsberger, expressing my satisfaction for the
solution.  I also tell him that the steps are not a special request
from us, so it is not obvious that there are additional costs and that
we have to take charge of these.

I ask him again a detailed list of costs before having another
meeting.  I underline how it is difficult for us to be called so
often.

14:00

Mr. Unger calls my wife for an appointment in the same day.  My wife
reply that she is not available because of professional duties, but
after the insistence of Mr. Unger, a meeting is fixed for 18 o'clock.

18:00

We are told that we have to pay 2800 Euro for the layering of the
parquet.  According to Mr. Klugsberger, we are guilty for not having
contacted his company when we choose it.  I tell him that
Mr. Jendrzejewski pointed us to Mr. Unger, and he was signing the
contract for Fourreal.  Mr. Klugsberger tell that he did not know
that, but in his opinion, the chosen parquet is not compatible with
our contract.  He do not give us any explanation.  Also they ask 400
Euro for the covering of the steps, because, according to
Mr. Klugsberger the "standard" ones are covered by tiles.  For the
first time we hear them refer to the steps as "podestum".

We insist that we do not have to pay, and they propose us two choices:

- to go the following day to the parquet shop with Mr. Unger and
  choose another parquet; then Fourreal would have payed for the
  "podestum";
- to contribute to the costs, for an unspecified amount.

We refuse to take a decision immediately and they told us it would have
been essential to meet with them the following day, otherwise the
apartment would not have been ready for the date of the delivery of
the kitchen.  I tell them that it is not possible for us, they reply
to call them by phone anyway.

Going around the apartment, I see for the first time the electrical
connection for the kitchen, and they are not as specified in the
contract.

September, 01
-------------

I write to Mr. Klugsberger for the connections issue in the kitchen.
He reply me that he would verify the issue with Mr. Unger and
eventually he would provide to have the correct connections installed.
He asked for the kitchen plan.  I call him by phone to confirm that I
am not available for a meeting and that I don't want to choose another
parquet, and that, because of the connection issues it will be
unlikely that the kitchen will be installed in the planned date.  I
also told him that Mr. Unger does not need the kitchen plan, because
we did the plan according to the existing connection: we simply need
one more socket for the oven near the existing one for the cook-plan.
He tell me to send the plan anyway.  He states that if we do not find
an agreement before September 5th, or at last September 7th,
the apartment can not be delivered in the date specified by the
contract (October, 1st).  I asked again for a written list of
additional costs, he reply that it will be provided at last the
following day.  In the evening I send Mr. Klugsberger the kitchen
plan.

September, 02
-------------

Mr. Unger calls my wife, asking again for the kitchen plan.  He ask to
send it at an e-email address that he will have provided us.  We do
not receive any address.  I write to Mr. Klugsberger asking if he
could provide the kitchen plan to Mr. Unger.  Mr. Klugsberger send it
to Mr. Unger, telling him to charge us of the additional costs for the
missing socket.  We still have not received any list of costs.

September, 03
-------------

Mr. Unger calls my wife, telling that if we do not find an agreement
before Tuesday, he will install the "parkett-dielen".  I write to
Mr. Klugsberger complaining about their unprofessional behavior.

September, 05
-------------

I meet with Mr. Röth and give him an update over the recent events.
Mr. Röth will write an e-mail to Mr. Klugsberger the following day.

Mr.Klugsberger write me telling that we are guilty of not being able
to find an agreement with Mr. Unger, that we asked for a different
parquet too late (he says four weeks before the delivery) and that we
should have contacted the seller and not the constructor.  He propose
to modify the contract to install the chosen parquet or to accept the
one they want to install.  He say that if one of the two proposal will
not be accepted before September, 7th every subsequent day will imply
a day of delay in the delivery.

He seems to ignore that:

- from August, 17th, he is involved in the discussion;
- on August, 23th, we told him that we wanted to call another
  company;
- on August, 23th, he made us an offer to persuade us to have the
  work assigned to Mr. Unger's company;
- in the following days, August 24th, 26th and 30th, I asked him for
  a reply;
- on August, 30th, he told me that everything was fine, and Fourreal
  would have payed;
- Mr. Jendrzejewski, who pointed to Mr. Unger as our referent, is
  not only the real estate agent, but was representing Fourreal;

September, 06
-------------

Mr. Röth write to Mr. Klugsberger, telling him that we have not
received any request of additional costs and therefore we expect that
the parquet will be layered before the installation of the kitchen,
and that the apartment will be delivered without delays.
Mr. Klugsberger reply that it will not be possible because we are
working on an agreement with Mr. Unger that modify the contract.  He
summarize the proposal he made me in his previous e-mail.

September, 07
-------------

My wife receive a phone call from Mr. Klugsberger.  He talks quickly
and vaguely.  My wife does not recognize him and pass me the call. He
tell me that he unsuccessfully tried to call Mr. Röth and ask me which
option I have choose.  I tell him to talk with Mr.  Röth and that I
want the parquet we choose.  He tell me again that if I do not choose
one of his options the delivery will be delayed.

September, 12
-------------

I send Mr. Röth the e-mail exchange between me and Klugsberger.  I
tell him that we are not aware of the "podestum" that Mr. Klugsberger
was talking about in his e-mail.

September, 13
-------------

Mr. Röth write to Mr. Klugsberger telling the unlikeness of separate
agreement between us and Mr. Unger.  Later on, he tell me that it
seems strange that Mr. Klugsberger is trying to put Mr. Unger in
troubles.

September, 14
-------------

I receive a call from Mr. Klugsberger, it seems very angry because it
has not been able to call Mr. Röth and he want to find a solution as
soon as possible.  He ask me to call Mr. Röth.  He want to find a
solution before the following day.

He send me an e-mail with a declaration from Mr. Unger and a cryptic
list of costs.

September, 15
-------------

I receive a call from Mr. Röth that informs me that he have talked
with Mr. Klugsberger, that insist in saying that we have an agreement
with Mr. Unger outside the boundaries of our contract.
Mr. Klugsberger proposes to sign an additional contract, in which the
apartment will be delivered before October, 10th and half of the
expenses for the steps and the parquet will be covered by Fourreal.  I
tell Mr. Röth that we do not want to sign such a contract, because
Mr. Klugsberger statements about our parquet are false.  I tell him
also that the step are not present in the contract, except of the
floor plan, and that, until August, 31th, they were supposed to be
made of concrete and not wood.  We agreed that I will call the parquet
shop to have more explicit details about the specification of the
parquet and Mr. Röth will verify if we have some rights about the
material of the steps.  I call the parquet shop and I get the
confirmation that no special treatment is needed.  I tell it to
Mr. Röth and send him the estimation of layering costs that we
gathered in the previous weeks.

September, 18
-------------

Mr. Klugsberger reply that the estimation we send do not include
sanding and oiling of the parquet's wood, and that, if we want to, we
can agreed to have them installed without such treatments.  He said
that "cement" for the step would be difficult, so he assume that we
are talking about a "podestum" in concrete, that would be too heavy.
He said that covering the steps with parquet will be cheaper for them,
but it will be aesthetically ugly.

September, 19
-------------

Mr. Klugsberger send us a picture of the steps realized in wood.  He
ask for an answer for the parquet.  Mr. Röth answer him that the work
realized for the steps is not that much and it should not be a problem
to redo them using concrete, because the height is not mentioned in
the floor plan they cannot be too big.  I send Mr. Klugsberger and
Mr. Röth the specifications of the parquet.

September 21
------------

Mr. Klugsberger send us two estimations for the layering of the
parquet from the two companies that we consulted.  It results that we
sent the wrong specifications, the estimation that we have are much
cheaper.

September 22
-----------

Mr. Klugsberger write us that if we not make a written statement of
our intention to cover all the additional costs, a different parquet
will be installed.  We have to do that before September, 26th; if we
agree, the apartment will be delivered on October 16th.

September 24
------------

Mr. Röth write to Mr. Klugsberger.  He proposes that steps would be
realized in concrete and that the additional costs would be halved
between us and Fourreal.

September 26
------------

Mr. Klugsberger calls me, saying that, if we want the apartment ready
for September, 16th, we have to meet him and sign the statement he
described in his e-mail.  We contact Arch. Ms. Martins, asking for a
consultancy.

September 27
------------

We meet Mr. Klugsberger and Mrs. Orgovanyi-Hanstein on the working
site.  They say that Mr. Unger is asking 5700 Euro for the layering
of the parquet.  They ask us to contribute for 2000 Euro.  They say
again that it is not possible to realize the steps using concrete,
because it is too heavy.  I object that their statement is true only
for a pre-build "podestum", but the step could be realized by casting
the concrete.  They says it would be too heavy anyway.  I ask for a
written statement about that, done by a qualified professional.  The
same day, we write to Mr. Klugsberger and Mrs. Orgovanyi-Hanstein the
statement they required: we will pay 2000 Euro in order to have the
apartment delivered on October 16th.  We also explain our reasons.

October 11th
------------

No reply from Mr. Klugsberger and Ms. Orgovanyi-Hanstein.  All the
works on construction site seems to be stopped.
I write them again.

October 14th
------------

Mr. Röth write to Mr. Klugsberger, asking for explanations.

October 17th
------------

Mr. Klugsberger replies that the parquet will be installed in the
following days.  He send us a [document][roloff_stairs] subscribed by
Mr. Jürgen Roloff that states that a pre-build podium in concrete is
too heavy and it is too late to realize the steps by casting because
of the long period needed to dry, but he does not specify how long it
will take.  In these days we also receive a formal list of costs from
Mr. Unger, in which are mentioned 1600 Euro for the layering of the
parquet as a forfeit price.

October 20th
------------

I meet on the construction site with Mr. Unger, Mr. Klugsberger and
Ms. Martins.  We should verify the material for the step covering, but
it is not there.  Mr. Unger tell us that it is late, and it will
arrive in the evening.  Ms. Martins write a
["Protokol"][martins_protokoll] of the meeting.  We clarify that the
parquet does not need additional treatments and the additional costs
will be 10 Euro/m2.  The Abnahme will be in the second week of
November.  We agree that I and my wife will come in the evening to
verify the material.  When we come, Mr. Unger is not here.  I write to
Mr. Klugsberger suggesting as a date for the Abnahme November, 11th.

October 26th
------------

No reply from Mr. Klugsberger.  I write him again.  Ms. Martins says
that, for personal reason, she is not available on November, 11th.

November 1st
-------------

Ms. Martins write to Mr. Klugsberger observing that the works we
planned in the last meeting are not done.

November 3rd
------------

No reply, Mr. Martins write again.  Mr. Klugsberger reply asking for a
meeting with the carpenter on November, 7th at 16:00.  He also propose
November 15th at 16:00 or 16th at 15:00 as possible dates for the
Abnahme.

November 4th
------------

Ms. Martins confirms the date for meeting with the carpenter (7.11)
and the Abnahme (15.11), provided that the remaining work has been
completed.

November 7th
-------------

I, my wife and Ms. Martins go to the site at 16:00 for the meeting
with the carpenter but he is not there.  We ask the worker, but they
do not know about that meeting.

November 8th
-------------

Mr. Klugsberger write Ms. Martins stating that he was not able to
contact us, and we did not present to the appointment.  Ms. Martins
reply to Mr. Klugsberger that this is a lie and that she fixed an
appointment for the following day.  If that will not work, the date of
November, 15th will be used to evaluate the material.  Mr. Klugsberger
reply that he will be on site the following day.

November 9th
------------

Ms. Martins calls me after visiting the construction site, she tell me
that in her opinion the material for the steps is good.  She also say
that they can probably finish the works on November 15th.  In the
afternoon my wife check the material and found it good.

November 14th
-------------

Mr. Unger write to Ms. Martins that he needs a written approval from us
for the material.  I send it to him.  Ms. Martins write that it is
clear that she was not informed that a written approval was needed and
that it is clear that the Abnahme can not take place at the planned
date.  She ask for an alternative.

November 15th
-------------

Ms. Tanja Bachschwöller, from Fourreal, write to Ms. Martins telling
that the Abnahme can not take place in the planned date.  She propose
November, 18th as alternative.  Ms. Martins says she is not available
and propose November, 21th or 23th as alternatives.  We confirm
November, 21th at 16:00.

November 17th
-------------

Ms. Bachschwöller write that they have a conflict in their schedule,
so the Abnahme could only take place at 18:00 instead of 16:00.  We
confirm.

November 21th
-------------

Abnahme.  Mr. Vogl told us that he will be on site the next Friday,
the date on which our kitchen will be installed.

November 25th
-------------

We pay the whole amount for the apartment.  The kitchen is installed.
I assisted the installation, bringing with me the documents from the
bank that demonstrate the payment.  However, Mr. Vogl is not present,
and, when called, he refuse to authorize the construction company to
give me the keys.

November 28th
-------------

We are given the key of our apartment.

December 2nd
------------

I wrote to fourreal to inform them that the main door of the building
has not a lock, and that we cannot access when the workers are not
there (they used to lock the door with a metal bar from the inside).
I also told them that we need to access the next days.

December 4th
------------

The door is locked and we cannot access.
We try to call Mr. Vogl and Mr. Unger, but no one answered.

December 6th
------------

I write to Mr. Vogl and Mr. Klugsberger to inform them that the
defects listed in the Abnahme-protokoll are not solved yet.  I also ask
them for compensations.  I receive no answer.

December 12th
-------------

We contact Jakstadt & Partner for asking legal assistance.

2017
====

January 4th
-----------

Jakstadt wrote to Fourreal GmbH, asking for compensation for the
defects and the late delivery of the flat.  He asks for the defects to
be fixed before 13.01.2017 and not later that 25.01.2017.  He also ask
for a compensation of 87.066,11 €, to be payed not later than
13.01.2017

January 10th
------------

Cellars are flooded, I write to Fourreal, no answer.

January 11th
------------

Our bathroom is flooded, the parquet is damaged.  I write to Fourreal, no answer.

January 13th
------------

The mail-boxes are installed.

I wrote to Fourreal to inform them that we have not the key of the
site where the mailboxes are.  Also I tell them that we have not
received the protokoll about building administration, that the
ring-bell is not working and other unfinished works in the building.  I
ask for information about the timeline of the remaining works.  No
answer.

Jakstadt receive a reply from Fourreal's lawyers, Krause Creutzburg &
partner.  They says that the defects listed in the Abnahme-protokoll
will be fixed by Kassim Maher Bau on 14.01.2017.

January 14th
------------

A worker of Kassim Maher Bau comes to our apartment and apply silicon
in the bathroom and start fixing the scratches on the door.  Mr. Unger
is present, he says us that the remaining works would have been done
the next Monday.  We fix an appointment for 16 o'clock

January 16th
------------

My wife leave the work early to be present for the appointment at 16 o'clock.
Nobody from Kassim Maher Bau comes.

March 8th
---------

A new construction company comes.  They says they will fix the
ring-bell. They do not.

March 9th
---------

I write to Mr. Vogl and Mr. Klugsberger, asking for more transparency
in the process, in particular, I would like to have name and contacts
of the new construction company, to communicate in written form and to
provide an estimation of when and how the defects will be fixed.

Mr. Klugsberger reply me that he has already fixed an appointment to
my wife to "find a reasonable solution", for the following day.
However, my wife only agreed to let the worker fix the ring-bell.

I reply, explaining that we already did our proposal in written form,
and we are not satisfied by their reply.  If they have a
counter-proposal, they can present to us in a written form.

Mr. Klugsberger do not reply.

March 10th
----------

I come home early from work, together with my wife, waiting for the
workers of the new company.  Nobody comes.

March 31th
----------

I receive a mail from someone called Karasu, from a _googlemail_
address, asking to keep the cellar open, because they have to work.  I
ask to Mr. Vogl for confirmation.  He replay that the new construction
manager is Mr. Massoud and the new new foreman is Mr. Karasau.  So, I
reply to Mr. Karasu, telling that I would keep the cellar open at the
accorded date.

May 5th
-------

We receive a reply from the new lawyer of fourreal, Mr Ott.  Mr. Ott
ask to the court for a prolongation of the procedure, since fourreal
has changed the construction company.

May 29th
--------

There have been some works in out terrace, concrete has been put
between some bricks.  We never authorized such works, I wrote to
Mr. Vogl, informing him that they have violated our property.

May 31th
--------

Ms. Margeth-Theuer, from fourreal, reply me, explaining that the new
construction company should have thought that our terrace is part of
the common property.  That is very unlikely, since our terrace is
fenced!  With nonchalance, she ask me when electrician can come to fix
the ring-bell.

Jun 29th
--------

We receive an e-mail with the invitation for the acceptance
("Abnahme") negotiation of the commonly owned properties.  A paper
copy will follow.  The date fixed is the 14.07.2017.

It contain some documentation, mostly missing the signatures.  In
particular there is a document that claims that the 'gartenhaus' --
the building our flat belongs to -- is a building of class 3, and as
such does not need a certificate about its static.  We checked, and
building of class 3 are no higher that seven meters.  The 'gartenhaus'
is a four-floor building, so indubitably higher that seven meters.
Another document attached is an 'Abnahme-protokoll' by Mr. Roloff, that
list some defects of the common properties.  However, there are a lot
of defect not listen; also because the works are still going on, and
it is not clear what could be fixed before the date of the acceptance.

In the following days, we have some talks with the owner of other
flats.  No one seems to be satisfied with fourreal.  Some people
declare that they will not go to the acceptance some other says
that they will go.

July 10th
---------

We wrote to fourreal pointing out the legal and material defect, and
asking for the acceptance negotiation to be delayed.
Ms. Margeth-Theuer reply than we will receive communication from their
lawyer.

July 13th
---------

We have received no reply (We discovered later, that fourreal's
lawyer, Mr. Ott, wrote the reply to our lawyer, Mr. Kickstand the
11.07.1017), so I write to Ms. Margeth-Theuer, asked if the acceptance
negotiation would have been delayed.  She reply that it will take
place as planned.  The reply from Mr. Ott said that everything was
correct, and we do not understand what an acceptance negotiation is.

October 30th
------------

We receive an e-mail from Ms. Blankestein (the administrator), calling
for the first owner meeting.  Attached there is the draft of a
contract that fourreal propose to the owners: it offers to leave a
monetary deposit in substitution of the remaining works on the
staircases.  The contract cite the acceptance negotiation of
14.07.2017.  Since we have no received any report of this meeting
after the invitation (by the way, the acceptance negotiation would
have need the majority of owners present), I ask Ms. Blankestein to
drop the item form the agenda.  She reply, as she usually do, that it
is something that I can discuss directly with fourreal.

November 6th
------------

I wrote to fourreal (and the other owners) explaining my objections.
In the communication I explain that they invite us to the acceptance
negotiation by sending us false documents, so I think they are liable
for fraud.  We receive a reply from Mr. Ott, that warn us (both me and
my wife) to not talk in such inquisitive term of fourreal, and ask us
to sign a document in which we declare that we will not do that
anymore.

November 13th
-------------

The first owner meeting take place.  The item presented by fourreal
asked us to vote on the monetary deposit in substitution of remaining
work.  That should be regulated by an agreement that should be signed
by the owners.  According to the agreement, if not all the owner sign
the agreement a new meeting is needed, and it will take place before
the end of January 2018.  We vote favorably to the proposal (after
they proved in so many ways how they bring on their duties...), but we
do not sign the contract, because it still references the meeting of
14.07.2017 and because the amount indicated is far too small.  Also,
in our opinion, the work listed in this agreement does not match with
the one on the contract.

November 23th
-------------

Appointement to the court for a mediation.
It is decided that Fourreal will come to inspect the flat.
It is fixed a first appointment for the 30th of November at 16:30
with the company for the window. Mr. Klugsberger says he would be
present.

November 30th
-------------

The window's company and Mr. Klusberger do not show themselves.
My wife write to Mr. Klugsberger asking for explanations.

December 11th
--------------

Mr. Klugsberger replies that they came to our neighbours but they
did not have enough time to come to us.

December 13th
-------------

Mr. Klugsberger and Mrs. Margeth-Theuer comes to see our flat


2018
====

March 7th
---------

Ms. Margeth-Theuer call us reminding that we have not signed the
contract.  I tell her that we are not willing to sign, and, after her
request, I will send her a communication with our reasons.

March 20th
----------

I wrote my reasons to Ms. Margeth-Theuer.  She reply me with her
opinion.

April 9th
---------

Fourreal deposit the money in the bank account of the administrator,
ignoring that we have not signed the contract.  It seems they
think that the vote on the meeting would have been enough.

However, every lawyer, technician and public official we asked
confirmed they can not make the deposit.

We call Ms. Blankestein, in the end she seems to realize that the
deposit is not allowed, but the say she will not give the money back.

April 13th
----------

I write to Ms. Blankestein asking her to inform the other owners that
we have not signed the contract, and therefore the deposit is not
allowed.

April 18th
----------

Ms. Blankestein reply me, putting fourreal in copying, asking them to
modify the contract in a way that we can sign it.  However,
Ms. Blankestein does not know all our objection to the contracts.

May 29
------

Ms. Margeth-Theuer still says that the deliberation of the meeting is
enough for them to make the deposit.

**... to be continued...**

------------------------------------------------------------
[unger_parquet]:     /assets/docs/unger_parquet.pdf
[hinterseer]:        https://www.hinterseer.com/
[parquet]:           /assets/docs/hinterseer.pdf
[tok-20160824]:      /assets/docs/mails/20160824-to.pdf
[tok-20160826]:      /assets/docs/mails/20160826-to.pdf
[tok-20160830]:      /assets/docs/mails/20160830.1-to.pdf
[roloff_stairs]:     /assets/docs/roloff_stairs.pdf
[martins_protokoll]: /assets/docs/martins_protokoll.pdf
