---
layout: post
title: "Size Does Matters"
index: 1
---
![size](/assets/covers/real-estate-2955057_640.jpg)


The flat we bought from fourreal has been shown to us by the real
estate agent, Mr. Jendrzejewski.  He used
a [floor plan][floor-plan-1] which has the size of every room
specified.  The bedroom size is indicated as 12.26 m² and the bathroom
8.77 m².  We visited the construction site on 10 February 2016 and on
31 March 2016.  At that time there were not internals wall.  The same
floor plan have been provided by fourreal's when they sent us the
draft of the contract.  When we signed the contract, however, we
signed a slightly different [floor-plan][floor-plan-2], that had two
steps in the entrance.

As they build the internal walls, we have the impression that the
bedroom and the bathroom are too small.  We hire an architect to
measure the rooms.  However, in order to be valid, a measurement must
be done when the construction is done, after the layering of the
wooden floor.  So, we have to wait for a long time, because of
the [complications][meeting-fourreal] created by fourreal and the
consequent delay in the delivery.  In the end, we have
the [measures][measures]: the bedroom is 11.15 m² instead of 12.26 m²
and the bathroom 6.82 m² instead of 8.77 m².

Since the living room is slightly bigger of the original plan, the
total size of the property is respecting the allowed maximal deviation
of 2%, as specified in the purchase contact. fourreal refuse to
recognized the defect, as, in their opinion the contracts do not
contains any guarantee over the measures of the singles rooms.

How it is possible?  The trick is that the floor plan we signed does
not have measures in it.  So, fourreal claims that the purchase
contract contains no obligation about the measures of single rooms.

It is worth noting that the door in the
bathroom [did not even open][washing-bowl] because of the small
dimension of the room, they have been forced to relocate the
washing-bowl, before the acceptance negotiation.  In this way, the
door can open properly, but one of the power outlets is useless when
the door is open, and the asymmetry of the outlets and the pipes is a
bit ugly.

Anything seems to indicate an error of construction.  It is not easy
to accept that "the purchase contract contains no guarantees on the
size of single rooms".  Of course no one would complain about small
differences, but here we are talking about difference of 25%.  Before
signing the contract, we asked
[modifications][bathroom-customizations] to fourreal in the bathroom.
For instance we asked for a bigger shower area.  We did our requests
on the basis of the information provided by fourreal.

It could be argued about our naïveness in signing the "new"
floor-plan.  Indeed, we were worried about the steps.  According to
Mr. Jendrzejewski, who represented fourreal, they were just a little
adjustment caused by building needs.  Of course, we were a bit
uncomfortable with this last-minute modification.  We should have
refuse to sign, and start a negotiation for a reduction in price.
However, it would have imply another meeting by the notary, that we
would have been cost to us about € 2000.  It would have required a lot
more time.  We had a long negotiation to agree with fourreal on a
suitable date for signing the contract.  It was not obvious that
fourreal would have agreed to a reduction in price.  Long story short:
we didn't worry at all about the measures, also because the original
floor-plan was part of a folder that present the seal from the notary,
so, we thought it was part of the contract anyway.

We discover later, that the folder containing the original floor-plan
is not part of the purchase contract, but of the _Teuilungserklärung_
(declaration of division).  So, it is arguably not bounding for the
seller.

I doubt the questions is that simple.  Even if it is true that they
are not bounded by such declaration (and not being a lawyer, I have no
authority on the matter), it seems to me that they have provided to us
false information.  Of course, part of it could be attributed to the
real estate agency, Bewocon, but fourreal itself sent us the plan with
the measures in the draft of the contract, and in the set of documents
of which the purchase contracts belongs, so there is no reason to
doubt that Bewocon used measures provided by fourreal.

I understand that a seller can not control each detail of the
implementation, but i do not think we are talking about details here.
Also, the seller is responsible for their sub-contractors.  So, if
fourreal wanted to hire the cheapest construction company they found,
they should have been, at least, a bit more careful in super-visioning
the works.  And when things went wrong, in my humble opinion, they
should have assumed their own responsibilities.

Speaking of responsibility, it is worth noting that I
[met][meeting-fourreal] fourreal only in the middle of August, when
the material for our wooden floor has been delivered, and they thought
there was a problem.  Apparently, they did not bother to check the
proceeding of the works before of that event.


[floor-plan-1]: https://www.instagram.com/p/Bj5VwBMlXSQ/
[floor-plan-2]: https://www.instagram.com/p/Bj5V6CLlN3H/
[meeting-fourreal]: {% post_url 2018-06-15-meeting-fourreal %}
[measures]: https://www.instagram.com/p/Bj5WEmVlLM6/
[washing-bowl]: https://www.instagram.com/p/Bj5WSRtFtrt/
[bathroom-customizations]: /assets/docs/k8-modifications.pdf
