---
layout: post
title: "Negotiation"
index: 5
---
![wrestling](/assets/covers/arm-wrestling-1019901_640.jpg)

After the [meeting][time-is-money] of 27th of September, in which we
accepted to pay for the parquet, we are waiting for the delivery of
the flat, for the 16th of October, as [agreed][mail-20160927] .
However the works seems to be stopped.  I write again to
Mr. Klugsberger, without receiving reply, as usual.  So, I am forced
to ask our lawyer to write him.

Mr. Klugsberger reply the 17th of October, assuring us that the
parquet will be installed soon.  He also send the
"[certification][roloff]" of the impossibility of doing the steps in
concrete.

The certification sounds very sloppy, even to a layman.  And there are
still several [open issues][men-at-work].  Most importantly, fourreal
is, once again, late and unwilling to give any explanation.

We find ourselves in a difficult situation: we already have terminated
the rental contract of the flat in which we are currently leaving.
The contract needed to be terminated with three month of notice, and
we have always been reassured by fourreal that the deadline would have
been met.

Now, we have to renew the contract on a monthly basis, paying a small
penalty each month, without any insurance that the flat will be
available.  Given that we have somewhat "solved" the issue of the
parquet, we want to proceed as fast as we can.

I am not happy about the results of the "negotiation" with fourreal,
but, like George Bernard Shaw, I learned: "Never wrestle with pigs.
You both get dirty and the pig likes it."  We decide to worry only
about the issues that actually prevent our relocation.  We hired an
architect to help us with the remaining issues related to the parquet
and the steps.

We fix an appointment on 20th October, with Ms. Martins, our
architect, Mr. Unger, of the construction company and Mr. Klugsberger,
of fourreal.  They are installing the parquet, and Mr. Klugsberger
explains how I have agreed to pay for the installation.

I point out that I have accepted to pay, _pending the condition that
the flat would have been delivered on 16th October_.  Mr. Klugsberger
turns pale, and mumbles that he told me that a few more days could be
needed.  He told me?  Not really.  Besides, I had to _write_ my
intention to pay, but clearly I do not deserve a written notification
if his planes change.

Mr. Martins checks the material and says that it is not
_massiv-parkett_, as claimed by Mr. Klugsberger.  Who is getting even
more pale.  They talk few minutes, in German, with Mr. Unger, then
they come to me with a new offer: € 700 for the installation.

That sounds much better that the € 2000 of their last offer and the €
3500 of the first one.  I do not see why I have to pay, since, in its
correspondence with our lawyer, Mr. Klugsberger told that fourreal
could have paid for a slightly more complicated installation, but not
for the _massiv-parkett_.

Usually, it could be expected that a company that falsely blames its
customers of misbehavior, wrestling with them for few thousand euro,
would try to apologize as soon as proven wrong.  Maybe even compensate
for the annoyance.  Anyway, I am happy to put this story to an end,
and € 700 are not worth further complication, I know how stingy they
are.

I discover a couple of other interestingly things from this
inspections.

They calculated the difference in price that we have to pay for the
parquet material, by the post-taxes price of the material we choose,
against the pre-taxes price that is written in the contract.  Since it
seems obvious to me that the contract reports the pre-taxes price, I
raise the objections.  They assure me that contract reports the
post-taxes.  I take note, in order to pile this up with the other
issues, however, in the invoice of the construction company, the
problem is fixed. They are more gentlemen than fourreal's people.

We discover that we have to pay for the installation of the tiles in
the bathroom.  Apparently, not even the construction company was aware
of that, because, accordingly to Mr. Klugsberger, it is the Austrian
way to do: bathroom in Austria does not have tiles.

However, Ms. Martins suggests us to accept their proposal about
covering the step by wood, that we initially refused because we would
have preferred parquet.  We agree to see the sample, in the following
days.

Mr. Martins write a [report][martins_protokoll] and we agree the weeks
in which we would have the acceptance negotiation.  The exact date
will be discussed by mail between me and Mr. Klugsberger.

Unsurprisingly, Mr. Klugsberger do not answer to my mails, and its
collaborators does not come to the appointment to show us the samples.
And, of course, Mr. Klugsberger blames us for the missed appointment,
and declare that, at this point, they will install parquet.

I am confused.  For months they told me that they could have not
installed parquet, because it is ugly, and we have to choose either to
pay for the massive wood they proposed or accept the default tiles.
And now, he wants to install parquet?

Luckily enough, both I, my wife and Ms. Martins were at the missed
appointment, so Ms. Martins bothers to reply to Mr. Klugsberger, and
fixes another appointment, in which she would have our power of
attorney. They did the appointment, and only days later say wrote me
that they need my written approbation of the steps.

They added a few more complications, to buy time I think, but in the
and we were able to do the partial acceptance negotiation for our
special properties.  It is present Mr. Roloff, the dispenser of lame
certification, and Mr. Vogl, another fourreal's directing manager.

We sign the "[protokoll][abnahme-protokoll]", and ask for a reduction
of price, because of the late delivery.  Mr. Vogl says that it is our
fault, because we were late in choosing the samples.

We pay the whole amount, and prepare ourselves to bring them to court,
but not without get them another chance to put their acts together.


[time-is-money]: {% post_url 2018-06-20-time-is-money %}
[mail-20160927]: /assets/docs/mails/mail-20160927.pdf
[roloff]: /assets/docs/roloff_stairs.pdf
[men-at-work]: {% post_url 2018-06-18-men-at-work %}
[martins_protokoll]: /assets/docs/martins_protokoll.pdf
[abnahme-protokoll]: /assets/docs/abnahmeprotokoll.pdf
