---
layout: post
title: "Time is Money"
index: 4
---
![house-money](/assets/covers/time-1019889_640.jpg)

After a couple of month of negotiation with fourreal, I decide to hire
a lawyer.  I would say I am forced: it is crystal clear that fourreal
is realizing that something is going wrong with their construction
company, and they want to dump the issue to us.

They claim we have bought a _massiv-parket_, after the material has
arrived.  It is false.  They claim that the two steps in the entrance
would be covered by tiles, "because they are a standard component",
even if our contract specify that it should be parquet.  They pretend
to not have been involved in the [negotiation][negotiation] of the
last months, and blame us to have stepped over them by talking
directly with the construction company.

I am starting to think that fourreal is only Mr. Klugsberger, a young
man that is trying to have a shot in the real estate business.  I
cannot find any other explanation to this level of amateurish
behavior.  As soon as I mention my intentions of searching legal
advice, Mr. Klugsberger immediately suggests against it, because then
fourreal will call their lawyers and a long battle will start, so we
will spend a lot of time and money and our flat will never be ready.

As it should be clear by now, I tend to not follow Mr. Klugsberger
suggestions, so I hired a lawyer to write to him.  As I suspected, the
reply comes from Mr. Klugsberger, and not from the announced army of
lawyers.  However, I have reasons to be surprised.  In the
correspondence with our lawyer, Mr. Klugsberger insists on his line.
He still says that we have a _massiv-parkett_, that it require further
treatments.  And he still blame the construction company. Even the
lawyer is surprised in seeing someone who attacks so openly their
associated.

In the meantime, the deadline for the deliver is missed, and the
apartment is far from finished.  Of course, fourreal will blame us for
the delay, because, according to them, we are late in choosing the
samples.  Later on, they reply to our request of compensation,
claiming that it has to be demonstrated that we could have not start
living in the flat in the due date.  A quick look to the [photographic
documentation][delay] of our flat, two weeks after the planned
delivery date, is a good sample of how surreal are fourreal's
argumentations.

Still, we are talking about the parquet.  Mr. Klugsberger complains
that "we are going around in circles", and that the only solution is
that we sign a separate contract for the parquet.  Our lawyer suggests
that we can pay now, and then still ask for verification of the deal.

We accept an invitation for a meeting with Mr. Klugsberger and
Mrs. Orgovanyi-Hanstein, co-owner and executive manager of the fourreal
group.  I hope that we finally can met someone more professional.

The first thing that Mrs. Orgovanyi-Hanstein says is that our contract
specify a floating installation of the parquet.  I am not impressed.
They repeat the same story: "you have negotiated with Mr. Unger a
parquet different from the specifications". Which specification? It
should be Oak instead of Walnuts? Ok, we pay the difference, we
already said we will do.  Since the price of the material is indicated
in the contract, it shouldn't be a problem to choose another one.

And I point out that I send them an e-mail time ago telling the whole
story, and they replied that "everything is fine with the wooden
floor".  A mail is not enough, I would have need a contract.
Interestingly, considering that Mr. Klugsberger, in blaming us for
dealing with their contractor, told me that a mail to them would have
been enough.

Mrs. Orgovanyi-Hanstein starts to complain that we are wasting her
time, and for her "time is money".  Again, I am not impressed.  They
ask us to _contribute_ for an amount of â‚¬ 2000.  We accept, mostly
because we need to relocate ourselves in the new flat as soon as
possible.  We agree that we would have send the an e-mail with our
intention to pay.

Then they start to talk about the steps.  Which they want to realize
in wood, and we want in concrete.  They have a lot of fun because I
used the word "cement" instead of "concrete", and with great
satisfaction they lecture me about the fact that cement is a powder,
and it is impossible to build steps with a powder.

They have their fun, they I ask: "We agree that we do not want to make
the steps in cement. What about concrete?" They continue laughing,
because of course, concrete is too heavy and the idea itself is
nonsense.

Since in a previous e-mail Mr. Klugsberger was talking about a
pre-built "podestum" in concrete, I inform him that I never thought of
a "podestum", but concrete casting.  They laugh again, apparently,
it does not make any difference.

They laugh even louder, when I ask them for an official certification
of the impossibility of my proposal.

However, in a few days they provide me the [opinion of their
expert][roloff].  And the opinion is that, in order to do a "podestum",
a new static proofing would be needed.  And it is too late for
concrete casting.

I asked other experts to check the opinion of fourreal's expert,
Mr. Roloff.  The told me, that it is absolutely nonsense.  They told
me that a the weight will not be excessive and there is no need of
static proofing.  Also, it would be quite easy and cheap.

So, steps in concrete does not sound like nonsense.  I could deduce
that they wasted time by purpose, in order to be legitimized to
realize the cheapest solution.

In any case, we [accepted][mail-20160927] to pay for the parquet, and
we will have the step in woods.  We lost on all front. Well, it is not
_that_ bad, but this the subject of the next chronicle.


[negotiation]: {% post_url 2018-06-15-meeting-fourreal  %}
[delay]: https: https://www.instagram.com/p/BkC3htplI0H/
[mail-20160927]: /assets/docs/mails/mail-20160927.pdf
[roloff]: /assets/docs/roloff_stairs.pdf
