---
layout: post
title: "Business is Business"
published: false
---

> Business, you know, may bring money, but friendship hardly ever does.
>
> -- Jane Austen

After a couple of month of negotiation with fourreal, I decide to hire
a lawyer.  I would say I am forced: it is crystal clear that fourreal
is realizing that something is going wrong with their construction
company, and they want to dump the issues to us.  They have two
different specification in two contracts: one, more expensive
specifications with us, and a cheaper one with the constructor
company.  They make a lot of unfounded claims.  They claim we have
bought a _massiv-parket_, after the material has arrived.  They claim
that the two steps in the entrance would be covered by tiles, "because
they are a standard component", even if our contract specify that it
should be parquet.  They pretend to not been involved in the
negotiation of the last months, and blame us to have stepped over them
by talking directly with the construction company.  We are just
following the instruction that Mr. Jendrzejewski, representing
fourreal, gave us

I am starting to think that foureal is only Mr. Klugsberger, a young
man that just want to have a shot in the real estate business.  I
cannot find any other explation to this level of amateurish behavior.
As soon as I mention my intentions of hiring a lawyer to
Mr. Klugsberger, he immediately suggests against it, because then
fourreal will call their lawyers and a long battle will start, so we
will spend a lot of money and our flat will never be ready.

As it should be clear by now, I tend to not follow Mr. Klugsberger
suggestions, so I hired a lawyer to write a letter to him.  As I
suspected, the reply to this letter comes from Mr. Klugsberger, and
not from the announced army of lawyers.  However, I have reasons to be
surprised.  In the corrispondence with our lawyer, Mr. Klugsberger
insists on his line.  He still says that we have a _massiv-parkett_,
that it require further treatments.  And he still blame the
construction company. Even the lawyer is surprised in seeing someone
who attacks so opently their associated.

In the meantime, the deadline for the delivery is passed, and the
apartment is far from being ready.  Of course, fourreal will blame us
for the delay, because, according to them, we are late in choosing the
samples.  A quick look to the [photographic documentation][delay] of
our flat, two weeks after the planned delivery date, is a good sample
of how surreal are fourreal's argomentations.

Still, we are talking about the parquet.  Mr. Klugsberger complains
that "we are going around in circles", and that the only solution is
that we sign a separate contract for the parquet.  Our lawyer suggests
that we can pay for now, and then still ask for verification of the
deal.

We accept an invitation for a meeting with Mr. Klugsberger and
Ms. Orgovanyi-Hanstein, co-owner and executive manager of the foureal
group.  I hope that we finally can met someone more professional.

I think I never placed so badly my hopes.

The first thing that Ms. Orgovanyi-Hanstein says is that our contract
specify _parkett-dielen_.  I am not impressed.  Luckily enough,
Mr. Klugsberger immediately shout her mounth.  In feeling relieve
after an action of Mr. Klugsberger, I realize that things are going
south.

Indeed they are.  They repeat the same story: "you have negotiated with Mr. Unger a parquett different from the specifications". Which specification? It should be Oak instead of Wallnuss? Ok, we pay the difference, we already said we will do.



[delay]: https://www.instagram.com/p/BkC3htplI0H/
