---
layout: post
title: "The Devil is in the Details"
index: 4
---
![sadness](/assets/covers/sadness-451917_640.jpg)

The construction of our flat and, as far as I know, of all other
properties in the building has been done by _Kassim Maher Bau GmbH_,
until the first months of 2017, when they disappears.  It seems that
fourreal never had much trust in them.  Mr. Klugsberger asked me a

list of defects in one of our first meetings. I send him an
[e-mail][e-mail] on 31 August 2016, with a list of the defects I found
until this point.

The construction works were not in an advanced state, but still it is
possible to see some mismatches between the contract and the
realization of the flat.  The majors defects that I list are: the
shower stall, that is mounted on a step, an unexpected corner in the
kitchen wall that made the planning of the kitchen a bit more
difficult and expensive, the gate in the garden, present in the
floor-plan but never realized, and the missing pocket door, also
present in the floor plan.

I received no answer by Mr. Klugsberger.

The day after, I visited the flat, invited to yet-another-meeting, and
I noticed that the power outlet has been installed.  However,
something seems wrong: in the kitchen there should be an outlet for
the cooking-plan and a separate one for the oven, like required by
most of the modern appliances. However it seems that there is only one
outlet.

I am a bit worried, because we already ordered the kitchen and we need
two power outlet.  The contract is explicit about the presence of two
separate outlet for the kitchen and the oven. Before ordering, I asked
confirmation to the worker of Kassim.

So, I wrote another mail to Mr. Klugsberger to inform him of the
issue.  After a while he call me, asking for the plan of the kitchen,
because the construction company needs to know where to place the
second outlet.  I tell him there is no need of the plan: the oven will
be under the cooking-plan, so the two outlets can be next each other.
We have planned the kitchen _after_ knowing the location of the
outlets, and we planned it in a way that considers the unplanned
corner.

His persistence is really annoying, so I send him, a copy of the plan
of the kitchen.  Interestingly, he forwards the plan to Mr. Unger, of
Kassim GmbH, asking him to realize the outlet according to the plan,
and _to make us pay_ for any difference with the specifications.

I am confused.  I have written to him that there should be two outlet
and there is only one.  I can understand that he do not believe me,
maybe diffidence is a skill of the good trafficker, but apparently he
did not even bother to check the contract.

At least this issue is being accepted and something is moving about
it.  And I start to understand the people with which I am dealing, and
it would not be a big issue to pay this scrooges for an outlet.  Still
no mention about the other issues.

A couple of weeks later, the 14 September 2016, in an e-mail sent to
our lawyer, Mr. Klugsberger attach a [declaration][unger-declaration]
from Mr. Unger, that is, once again, surreal: he basically say that
kitchen has been realized according to our plan, and the gate in the
garden is just a schematic representation for understanding where is
the garden.  He does not mention the other issues.  But at the time we
are too worried about the parquet and the delivery of the flat, since
our rental contract expires at the end of the month.

When they finally started installing the parquet, we found that they
have realized the outlet for the oven in the wrong place. They
mistaken the fridge for the oven, so made the outlet in the opposite
site of the kitchen and much higher of where it should be.  Of course
they had to do it again, and in the end we have not payed for it.

The other issues, the shower stall, the gate, the corner and the pocket
door are at the moment object of our court proceeding.  The basic
approach of fourreal is that they are not defects either because not
specified in the contract either because they are consequence of our
choices.

With the regard the shower stall, they claim that it has been our
choice.  We have asked for a bigger shower area, and we sign a
document, attached to the contract.  The document mention a bigger
shower stall.  According to fourreal's lawyer, the wording "shower
stall" imply a step, so we are the one who asked for it.

They have a similar approach for the pocket door.  When they were
about to install the door, we discovered that it would not have been a
pocket-door (inside the wall), but an external sliding door.  Than
means that one side of the wall would have been unusable, and we
planned to have the fridge here.  So we asked to not have the door at
all.  I think it is difficult to call this a request from our.

Finally, for the gate, they say that construction authorities forbid
the realization of such a gate.  They have never shown us any
documentation.  We have been unable to find a confirmation from the
authorities.

These defects are now part of the subject of the court proceeding, so
we are waiting for the opinion of the judge.

[e-mail]: /assets/docs/mails/mail-20160831.pdf
[unger-declaration]: /assets/docs/unger_declaration-20160914.pdf
