---
layout: post
tile: "Meeting fourreal: Mr. Klugsberger"
---

> Though silence is not necessarily an admission, it is not a denial, either.
>
> -- Cicero


I meet someone from fourreal for the first time on 17 August 2016.
After being called by Mr. Unger, of the construction company _Kassim
Mauer Bau GmbH_, I go to the construction site, and I found
Mr. Andreas Klugsberger, that introduce himself as a fourreal
employee.  And he says there is a problem.

Apparently, the parquet has been delivered, and it is not correct.  He
explains to me and my wife, that our contract specify a
_parkett-dielen_ while the one we choose is _massiv-parkett_.  He
claims that we can choose a _parkett-dielen_, indistinguishable from
the one delivered, otherwise the additional costs for the
installations will be charged to us.  _Diele_ means "floorboard", and,
in my understanding, _parkett-dielen_ is the term used for a floating
installation, in which the floorboard are angle-engaged with a "click"
system.

Mr. Klugsberger is not able to quantify the cost, and suggest to go
back to the parquet shop and choose another product.  He say that we
can have the wood we choose as a _dielen_.  I insist for an
estimation, since I prefer a glued solution for several reasons, not
last, it is more indicated for underfloor heating.  The more I ask for
precise information, the more Mr. Andreas "[Lionel Hutz][hutz]"
Klugsberger insists that the parquet we ordered is not what we want,
and the one he propose is better.

Interestingly, I and my wife ordered the parquet on 28.05.2016, in the
shop indicated to us by Mr. Unger, and we brought immediately the
specifications to him.  However, we had to wait for the delivery, to
understand that something is wrong.  It is pretty interesting that
fourreal didn't bother to check until this point, considering the § 4
of the purchase contract:

> Der Verkäufer ist bemüht, die Bauleistungen bis zum 31.07.2016
> fertigzustellen

that is, the seller will try to deliver for the 30 July, even if the
contractual obligations is for the first of October.

The following day, Mr. Unger send an SMS (yes, an SMS!) to my wife, in
which he says that the additional cost for the layering of the parquet
amount to € 3493.  So, we come back to the parquet shop, and verify
that the parquet we choose is not _massiv-parkett_, but is
_schiffsböden_.  The specific one we choose can not be installed as
_dielen_, but it need to be glued.  We choose it by purpose, because
it is less noisy and works much better with the underfloor heating
system.  Using a floating installation with underfloor heating system
needs specific precautions, including a layer of sand, to prevent
thermal insulation that would cause the heating system to be very
inefficient and expensive.

We also procure ourselves a list of companies that could proceed with
the installation of the parquet.  We call Mr. Unger asking him to keep
the material, because we are considering hiring another company to
proceed with the installation.  Mr. Unger immediately calls us for a
meeting, the very same day (23th August 2016).  In the meeting is
present Mr. Klugsberger, that tell us that it would be possible to
call another company, but it would have some complications: namely the
need to track the liability of each company that works on the site.

In order to avoid such complication he makes us an offer: fourreal
will install the parquet we choose, up to 36 €/m² and we will pay the
difference to the total cost, that, according to Mr. Unger is 40 €/m².
We agreed to pay 4 €/m², for a total amount of € 280. Mr. Klugsberger
shows us the contract of Mr. Unger, with the _parkett-dielen_ wording
and explain us the differences between _floating_ and _glued_
installations.  From its descriptions it seems they have no intention
to keep in account the underfloor heating system.

In the very same meeting, Mr. Klugsberger tell us that the parquet is
not a good choice for the step we will have in the entrance door.
These steps are been added to our contract at the last minute.  He
proposed a covering of solid wood, and showed us some pictures from
his laptop.  We ask for documentation and prices, and Mr. Klugsberger
promise that Mr. Unger would have sent to us a written offer for the
parquet and the covering of the steps.

The following day, no news.  In the meantime I checked our contract,
and there is no mention of _parkett-dielen_, I write to
Mr. Klugsberger.

Two days later, no reply, I write again.

Further four day later, no reply.

I write again to Mr. Klugsberger and to fourreal,
[describing][mail-20160830] the situation.  Mr. Klugsberger reply me,
apologizing for the delay, and telling me that _everything is fine
with the wooden floor_.  He admit he was wrong talking about
_parkett-dielen_, therefore fourreal will pay the € 280 needed for the
layering.  However he insist that we have to discuss with Mr. Unger
about our "special request" regarding the steps.

I point out that it is no our special request, but his suggestion; and
that I want a _written_ offer. Also I inform him that is quite
difficult for us to have so many meeting, and I see no reason to
discuss the subject by mail.  After few hours, at 2 pm, Mr. Unger
calls my wife by phone, calling for a meeting immediately.  My wife
refuse, but Mr. Unger insists until they fix an appointment at 6 pm.

It seems that Mr. Klugsberger is trying to avoid written
communications at any cost.  That does not make him particularly
trustworthy.

At the appointment Mr. Klugsberger and Mr. Unger tell us that we have
to pay € 2800 for the layering of the parquet and € 400 for the
    covering of the steps, otherwise the steps will be covered by tiles.

All of this _without any written justification_.  They shows only a
screen on Mr. Unger's laptop, that show a total expenses for us of
more that € 6000, including the installations of the tiles in the
bathroom.  We discovered later that, according to fourreal, only the
shower is covered by tiles, because that the way it is done in
Austria.

It is clear that the situation is getting kafkesque, but we try to
concentrate on the wooden floor.

They insist that we have ordered _massiv-parkett_, that it is not
allowed by the contract, and that it needs a complicate works of
sanding and oiling.  I object it cannot be true, because the parquet
we ordered is already lacquered.  We have chosen it on purpose,
because it is has to be used in the kitchen too.  I have the
specification with me, by they refuse to check, they say they already
inspected the material, and I don't know what I am talking about.
With regard the steps, they say that they are a standard components
and they are covered by tiles, no matter that our contract says that
the whole flat has a wooden floor, with the only exception of the
bathroom.

After a couple of hours of meeting, my wife leave, with ours then two
years old daughter, while Mr. Klugsberger and Mr. Unger are engaged in a crusade  to sell me the _dielen_.  If there were some doubt left, after the false information provided to me until this point, the tactically delayed replies , the aversion to everything written, the heat of these two trafficker makes clear that there is something wrong.  I refuse their offers and go back home.

I write one last mail to Mr. Klugsberger, to give him the last chance of act professionally.  He reply that he is surprised in learning that we want a new parquet, and we tell him only now, two weeks before the delivery.  He pretends that we have not talked about it in the last month, and he says that we are not allowed to change the specifications of the contract without informing fourreal.
Because of that, they will be not able to honor the deadline stated in the purchase contract.

Indeed, they are late.  The flat should have been delivered by the first of October. It is not ready, and, of course, not because of the wooden floor, that, by they way, can be installed as last thing.  On the 12 October, two weeks after the delivery date, there are [many thing][delay] missing: no bathroom, no internal doors, no terrace.

It took several other weeks to have finally our parquet installed, but this will be the subject of another post.

[hutz]: https://youtu.be/-Nc88_ZEfxg
[delay]: https://www.instagram.com/p/BkC3htplI0H/
[mail-20160830]: /assets/docs/mails/20160830.1-to.pdf
